My name is Kathy H. I’m thirty-one years old, and I’ve been a carer now for over eleven years. That sounds long enough, I know, but actually they want me to go on for another eight months, until the end of this year. That’ll make it almost exactly twelve years. 
Now I know my being a carer so long isn’t necessarily because they think I’m fantastic at what I do. There are some really good carers who’ve been told to stop after just two or three years. And I can think of one carer at least who went on for all of fourteen years despite being a complete waste of space. 
So I’m not trying to boast. But then I do know for a fact they’ve been pleased with my work, and by and large, I have too. 
My donors have always tended to do much better than expected. Their recovery times have been impressive, and hardly any of them have been classified as “agitated,” even before fourth donation. 
Okay, maybe I am boasting now. But it means a lot to me, being able to do my work well. Especially it means everything to me if my donors stay “calm”. To this aim, I’ve developed a kind of instinct around donors. I know when to hang around and comfort them, when to leave them to themselves. When to listen to everything they have to say with a look of anguish. 
Carers aren’t machines. This work gets a lot harder when you don’t have that deeper link with the donor. You try and do your best for every donor, but in the end, it wears you down. You don’t have unlimited patience and energy. 
For some carers the whole thing becomes a real struggle. They might start off positively enough, but spending all their time so close to the pain and the worry is not easy at all. And sooner or later a donor doesn’t make it, even though, say, it’s only the second donation and no one anticipated serious problems. 
When a donor completes like that, out of the blue, it doesn’t make much difference what the nurses say to you afterwards. They say “You did your best” or “Hang in there”. 
For a while at least, you’re demoralized. Some of us learn pretty quick how to deal with it. But others? like Laura, say? they never do. 
So when you get a chance to choose your donor, you choose your own kind. That’s natural. That’s why I chose Ruth and Tommy, who graduated from Hailsham where I had spent sixteen years with them. 
There have been times over the years when I’ve tried to leave Hailsham behind, when I’ve told myself I shouldn’t look back so much. But then there came a point when I just stopped resisting. It had to do with this particular donor I had once, in my third year as a carer; it was his reaction when I mentioned I was from Hailsham. 
He’d just come through his third donation, it hadn’t gone well, and he must have known he wasn’t going to make it. He could hardly breathe, but he looked towards me and said: “Hailsham, I bet that was a beautiful place”. 
Then the next morning, when I was making conversation to keep his mind off it all, and I asked where he’d grown up, he mentioned some place in Dorset and his face went into a completely new kind of grimace. And I realized then how desperately he didn’t want reminded. Instead, he wanted to hear about Hailsham. 

